README.md, before:

# Permissioning Smart Contracts

**Note:** The contracts herein have been third party audited. [Please
contact us](https://consensys.net/quorum/contact-us) if you would like more information, or if you are considering using this Dapp in a production environment.

**Important:** The dependency chain for this implementation of onchain permissioning includes [web3js](https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/) which is LGPL licensed.

## Using

You probably got here from Besu.
The [Besu documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/Tutorials/Permissioning/Getting-Started-Onchain-Permissioning/)
describes how to use the contracts for onchain permissioning with Besu.

We recommend you use the latest released version of this project.

## Development
_Note: The build process for the Dapp is currently not supported on Windows. Please use the provided distribution available at the [projects release page](https://github.com/PegaSysEng/permissioning-smart-contracts/releases/latest) if on Windows._

### Initialize dependencies ###
Run `yarn install` to initialize project dependencies. This step is only required when setting up the project
for the first time.

### Linting
Linting is set up using solium. To run it over your code execute `yarn run lint`.

### Testing
`yarn test`

### Permissioning Management Dapp

Note: if you want to run against Besu, follow the Besu docs.

ONLY use these instructions if you are doing development work on the Dapp itself, in which case connecting to a development server (Ganache) will enable faster development.

The Dapp will facilitate managing permissioning rules and maintaining the list of admin accounts that can edit rules.

This is the easiest way to get started for development with the permissioning Dapp:

#### Compile and migrate the contracts (Development mode) ####
1. Delete your environment variables named `NODE_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`, `ACCOUNT_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` AND
`CHAIN_ID` - you might need to restart your terminal session to have your changes applied. If you are using a `.env` file, you can comment out the variables.
1. Start a terminal session and start a Truffle Ganache node running `truffle develop`. This will start a Ganache node and create a Truffle console session.
1. In the truffle console, run all migrations from scratch with `migrate --reset`. Keep this terminal session open to maintain your Ganache node running.

#### Start the development server ####
1. Run `yarn run build` to build the Dapp.
1. Run `yarn run start` to start the web server that is serving our Dapp.
1. In your browser, connect MetaMask to the Ganache network (the default endpoint is `http://127.0.0.1:9545/`)
1. When you start Ganache, it gives you a list of accounts and private keys. Import the first one in MetaMask to impersonate the first admin of the system.
1. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to access the Permissioning Dapp.
1. All changes made to the smart contracts or to the Dapp code are automatically refreshed on the website. There is no need to restart the web server after making changes.

#### Build the permissioning Dapp for deployment ####

1. [Compile and migrate the contracts](#compile-and-migrate-the-contracts)
1. Run `yarn run build` will assemble index.html and all other files in `build/`
1. You can use your preferred web server technology to serve the contents of `build/` as static files.
1. You will need to set up MetaMask as for [the development server](#start-the-development-server)

## Deployment

### Deploying the contracts
1. The [Besu documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/Tutorials/Permissioning/Getting-Started-Onchain-Permissioning/)
   describes how to use the contracts for onchain permissioning with Besu, including setting environment variables.
1. The following additional environment variables are optional and can be used to prevent redeployment of rules contracts. If set to true, that contract will not be redeployed and current list data will be preserved. If absent or not set to `true`, the specified contract will be redeployed. This allows you, for instance, to retain the Admin contract while redeploying NodeRules and AccountRules, or any other combination.
  - `RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true`
  - `RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=true`
  - `RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=true`
1. The following additional environment variables are optional and can be used to permit accounts and nodes during initial contract deployment
  - `INITIAL_ADMIN_ACCOUNTS`: The admin account addresses. Comma-separated multiple addresses can be specified
  - `INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_ACCOUNTS`: The permitted account addresses. Comma-separated multiple addresses can be specified
  - `INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_NODES`: The enode URLs of permitted nodes. Comma-separated multiple nodes can be specified
1. If this is the first time setting up the project, run `yarn install` to initialize project dependencies, otherwise skip this step
1. With these environment variables provided run `truffle migrate --reset` to deploy the contracts

### Deploying the Dapp
1. Obtain the most recent release (tarball or zip) from the [projects release page](https://github.com/PegaSysEng/permissioning-smart-contracts/releases/latest)
1. Unpack the distribution into a folder that will be available to your webserver
1. Add to the root of that folder a file `config.json` with the following contents

_Note: The `networkID` is defined as the `chainID` in the genesis file._
```
{
        "accountIngressAddress":  "<Address of the account ingress contract>",
        "nodeIngressAddress": "<Address of the node ingress contract>",
        "networkId": "<ID of your ethereum network>"
}
```
1. Use a webserver of your choice to host the contents of the folder as static files directing root requests to `index.html`

Commit message:

added instructions for how to update snapshots (#195)
* added how to update snapshots instructions

Signed-off-by: Sally MacFarlane <sally.macfarlane@consensys.net>

README.md, after:

# Permissioning Smart Contracts

**Note:** The contracts herein have been third party audited. [Please
contact us](https://consensys.net/quorum/contact-us) if you would like more information, or if you are considering using this Dapp in a production environment.

**Important:** The dependency chain for this implementation of onchain permissioning includes [web3js](https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/) which is LGPL licensed.

## Using

You probably got here from Besu.
The [Besu documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/Tutorials/Permissioning/Getting-Started-Onchain-Permissioning/)
describes how to use the contracts for onchain permissioning with Besu.

We recommend you use the latest released version of this project.

## Development
_Note: The build process for the Dapp is currently not supported on Windows. Please use the provided distribution available at the [projects release page](https://github.com/PegaSysEng/permissioning-smart-contracts/releases/latest) if on Windows._

### Initialize dependencies ###
Run `yarn install` to initialize project dependencies. This step is only required when setting up the project
for the first time.

### Linting
Linting is set up using solium. To run it over your code execute `yarn run lint`.

### Testing
`yarn test`

### Permissioning Management Dapp

The Dapp will facilitate managing permissioning rules and maintaining the list of admin accounts that can edit rules.

Note: if you want to run against Besu, follow the Besu docs.

ONLY use these instructions if you are doing development work on the Dapp itself, in which case connecting to a development server (Ganache) will enable faster development.

This is the easiest way to get started for development with the permissioning Dapp:

#### Compile and migrate the contracts (Development mode) ####
1. Delete your environment variables named `NODE_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`, `ACCOUNT_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` AND
`CHAIN_ID` - you might need to restart your terminal session to have your changes applied. If you are using a `.env` file, you can comment out the variables.
1. Start a terminal session and start a Truffle Ganache node running `truffle develop`. This will start a Ganache node and create a Truffle console session.
1. In the truffle console, run all migrations from scratch with `migrate --reset`. Keep this terminal session open to maintain your Ganache node running.

#### Start the development server ####
1. Run `yarn run build` to build the Dapp.
1. Run `yarn run start` to start the web server that is serving our Dapp.
1. In your browser, connect MetaMask to the Ganache network (the default endpoint is `http://127.0.0.1:9545/`)
1. When you start Ganache, it gives you a list of accounts and private keys. Import the first one in MetaMask to impersonate the first admin of the system.
1. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to access the Permissioning Dapp.
1. All changes made to the smart contracts or to the Dapp code are automatically refreshed on the website. There is no need to restart the web server after making changes.

#### Snapshots ####
Snapshots are compared as part of the test suite, to check any changes made to the Dapp are sensible. If you change the Dapp, you also need to update the snapshots.
1. `yarn jest -u`
1. or if using npm: `npm run test:app -- -u`

#### Build the permissioning Dapp for deployment ####

1. [Compile and migrate the contracts](#compile-and-migrate-the-contracts)
1. Run `yarn run build` will assemble index.html and all other files in `build/`
1. You can use your preferred web server technology to serve the contents of `build/` as static files.
1. You will need to set up MetaMask as for [the development server](#start-the-development-server)

## Deployment

### Deploying the contracts
1. The [Besu documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/Tutorials/Permissioning/Getting-Started-Onchain-Permissioning/)
   describes how to use the contracts for onchain permissioning with Besu, including setting environment variables.
1. The following additional environment variables are optional and can be used to prevent redeployment of rules contracts. If set to true, that contract will not be redeployed and current list data will be preserved. If absent or not set to `true`, the specified contract will be redeployed. This allows you, for instance, to retain the Admin contract while redeploying NodeRules and AccountRules, or any other combination.
  - `RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true`
  - `RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=true`
  - `RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=true`
1. The following additional environment variables are optional and can be used to permit accounts and nodes during initial contract deployment
  - `INITIAL_ADMIN_ACCOUNTS`: The admin account addresses. Comma-separated multiple addresses can be specified
  - `INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_ACCOUNTS`: The permitted account addresses. Comma-separated multiple addresses can be specified
  - `INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_NODES`: The enode URLs of permitted nodes. Comma-separated multiple nodes can be specified
1. If this is the first time setting up the project, run `yarn install` to initialize project dependencies, otherwise skip this step
1. With these environment variables provided run `truffle migrate --reset` to deploy the contracts

### Deploying the Dapp
1. Obtain the most recent release (tarball or zip) from the [projects release page](https://github.com/PegaSysEng/permissioning-smart-contracts/releases/latest)
1. Unpack the distribution into a folder that will be available to your webserver
1. Add to the root of that folder a file `config.json` with the following contents

_Note: The `networkID` is defined as the `chainID` in the genesis file._
```
{
        "accountIngressAddress":  "<Address of the account ingress contract>",
        "nodeIngressAddress": "<Address of the node ingress contract>",
        "networkId": "<ID of your ethereum network>"
}
```
1. Use a webserver of your choice to host the contents of the folder as static files directing root requests to `index.html`
